GitHub Action and Application documentation (#9518)
pantheon-systems/documentation: source/content/github-actions.md

<!-- These images are also in https://github.com/stevector/push-to-pantheon/tree/0.x/.github/documentation and https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17k15auDrnpq2LdRC4P35dN5yJ4pOkPY62M7drBDkTCc/edit#slide=id.g32ed471dd64_0_2488 -->
![Deploying main to Pantheon](../images/github-action/diagram--pushing-main.png)

Here is an example of a complete GitHub Actions workflow file to deploy every pull request made on the repository for a WordPress or Drupal codebase to a Pantheon Multidev environment.

```yml
name: Deploy PR to Pantheon

concurrency:
  group: ${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.event.pull_request.number }}
  cancel-in-progress: false

on:
  pull_request:
    types: [opened, synchronize]

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v4
    - name: Push to Pantheon
      uses: pantheon/push-to-pantheon@0.5.0
      with:
        ssh_key: ${{ secrets.PANTHEON_SSH_KEY }}
        machine_token: ${{ secrets.PANTHEON_MACHINE_TOKEN }}
        site: ${{ vars.PANTHEON_SITE_MACHINE_NAME }}
```

> For more detailed guidance on usage of this Action including availabile parameters, compilation of front-end assets through `npm`, and concurrency, [see the full readme from the Action](https://github.com/stevector/push-to-pantheon).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed guidance on usage of this Action including availabile parameters, compilation of front-end assets through `npm`, and concurrency, [see the full readme from the Action](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/push-to-pantheon).
```

description: Actions for web teams and plugin authors
tags: [continuous-integration, workflow, D8, D9, D10]
contenttype: [doc]
innav: [true]
categories: [automate, workflows]
cms: [drupal, wordpress]
audience: [development]
product: [terminus]
integration: [--]
reviewed: "2025-04-15"

---

Pantheon maintains [multiple GitHub Actions](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/action-library) for integrating with our platform or designed for authors of WordPress plugins and other packages.
This page focuses on the two actions most commonly used by web teams deploying to Pantheon.

## Push to Pantheon

Our [Push to Pantheon](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/push-to-pantheon) Action handles the creation of [Multidev environments](https://docs.pantheon.io/guides/multidev) that correspond to GitHub pull requests and the pushes to Pantheon's Dev environment after merging pull requests to a `main` branch.

When running workflow triggered by a pull request, this action will create a Multidev environment and deploy code to it.

![Diagram of the Push to Pantheon process of deploying a PR to a Pantheon Multidev](../images/github-action/diagram--deploying-pr.png)

> When running on workflows triggered by merges/pushes to the `main` branch this action will deploy code to [the Pantheon Dev environment](https://docs.pantheon.io/pantheon-workflow).

Author: ```suggestion
When running on workflows triggered by merges/pushes to the `main` branch (or whatever you name your default branch) this action will deploy code to [the Pantheon Dev environment](https://docs.pantheon.io/pantheon-workflow).
```

> <!-- These images are also in https://github.com/stevector/push-to-pantheon/tree/0.x/.github/documentation and https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17k15auDrnpq2LdRC4P35dN5yJ4pOkPY62M7drBDkTCc/edit#slide=id.g32ed471dd64_0_2488 -->

Author: ``
```suggestion
<!-- These images are also in https://github.com/pantheon-systems/push-to-pantheon/tree/0.x/.github/documentation and https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17k15auDrnpq2LdRC4P35dN5yJ4pOkPY62M7drBDkTCc/edit#slide=id.g32ed471dd64_0_2488 -->
```

---
title: Pantheon's GitHub Actions
description: Actions for web teams and plugin authors
tags: [continuous-integration, workflow, D8, D9, D10]
contenttype: [doc]
innav: [true]
categories: [automate, workflows]
cms: [drupal, wordpress]
audience: [development]
product: [terminus]
integration: [--]
reviewed: "2025-04-15"

---

> Pantheon maintains multiple GitHub Actions for integrating with our platform.
> This page focuses on the two actions most commonly used by web teams deploying to Pantheon.
> Separately, [we maintain multiple GitHub Actions meant for authors of WordPress plugins and other packages](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/action-library).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pantheon maintains [multiple GitHub Actions](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/action-library) for integrating with our platform or designed for authors of WordPress plugins and other packages.
This page focuses on the two actions most commonly used by web teams deploying to Pantheon.
```

This paragraph repeats itself. Moving the link to the actions library and combining the sentences about "maintain[ing] multiple GitHub Actions" into one.

## Push to Pantheon

> Our [Push to Pantheon](https://github.com/stevector/push-to-pantheon) Action handles the creation of [Multidev environments](https://docs.pantheon.io/guides/multidev) to correspond to GitHub pull requests and the pushing to Pantheon's Dev environment after merging of pull requests to a `main` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our [Push to Pantheon](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/push-to-pantheon) Action handles the creation of [Multidev environments](https://docs.pantheon.io/guides/multidev) to correspond to GitHub pull requests and the pushing to Pantheon's Dev environment after merging of pull requests to a `main` branch.
```
